As we know containers are afemeral in nature. i.e. when container get removed or crashed the data inside also get deleted.
Docker volumes are used for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers12. Here are some reasons why Docker volumes are preferred:

1. Data Persistence: Volumes help in persisting data. The data stored in a volume exists outside the lifecycle of containers, ensuring that data persists even after a container is deleted12.
2. Data Sharing: Volumes can be shared and reused among containers, which is useful when multiple containers need access to the same data12.
3. Storage Location: Docker manages the storage of volumes. By default, they are stored in a specific directory on the host machine12.
4. Volume Drivers: Docker has volume drivers that allow volumes to be hosted on remote hosts or cloud providers, or to add other functionalities like encryption12.
5. Performance: Volumes have better performance and are more reliable than other options like bind mounts12.
6. Compatibility: Volumes work on both Linux and Windows containers12.

### Commands
- docker volume ls
- docker volume create volumeName
- docker volume inspect volumeName
- docker volume rm volumeName
- docker volume prune
- docker run -itd -v volumeName:/path/in/container imageName
- docker run -itd --mount source=volumeName,destination=/path/in/container,permission imageName   (we can replace readonly if we don't want to make it writable by default it is readwrite)
- docker run -itd --mount type=bind,source=/dir,destination=/path/in/container imageName
- docker run -itd -v /local/dir:/path/in/container imageName    (this will share files with container's directory)
- -v volumeName:/dir/in/container    (this is a volume mount)
- -v /local/dir:/dir/in/container    (this is a bind mount)


### Volume VS Bind Mount
Volumes:
- Volumes are the preferred mechanism for persisting data.
- They are completely managed by Docker.
- A new directory is created within Docker’s storage directory on the host machine, and Docker manages that directory’s contents.
- Volumes are easier to back up or migrate than bind mounts.
- -v volumeName:/dir/in/container    (this is a volume mount)
Bind Mounts:
- Bind mounts have been around since the early days of Docker.
- A file or directory on the host machine is mounted into a container.
- The fil/e or directory is referenced by its absolute path on the host machine.
- Bind mounts rely on the host machine’s filesystem having a specific directory structure available.
- Bind mounts give access to sensitive files and can change the host filesystem through processes running in a container.
- -v /local/dir:/dir/in/container    (this is a bind mount)